[DOC-1254] CIDR range lookup (#31302)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/stable/develop/data-modeling/cidr-range-lookups-ysql.md

---
title: Efficient CIDR range lookups in YugabyteDB YSQL
headerTitle: CIDR range lookups
linkTitle: CIDR range lookups
description: Use generated columns and secondary indexes for efficient CIDR range containment queries in YSQL
headContent: Use generated columns and secondary indexes to model efficient CIDR range lookups
menu:
  stable_develop:
    identifier: cidr-range-lookups-ysql
    parent: data-modeling
    weight: 320
tags:
  other: ysql
type: docs
---

YSQL supports PostgreSQL-compatible `inet` and `cidr` data types for storing IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. However, `inet` and `cidr` columns can't be used directly as index keys in YugabyteDB.

For efficient queries that find which CIDR range contains a given IP address, normalize addresses into a byte-comparable value, store the start and end of each CIDR range in generated columns, and create a secondary index on the range start.

This pattern works best when CIDR ranges don't overlap.

## Setup

> Follow the [local cluster setup instructions](../../../quick-start/explore/ysql/) to start a local YugabyteDB cluster and connect to it using ysqlsh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [local cluster setup instructions](../../../quick-start/macos/) to start a local YugabyteDB cluster and connect to it using ysqlsh.
```
